[Music]
[Applause]
the next morning and the Cubs are doing
well
there are healthy 1.2 kilograms each
[Music]
and as the day's roll by the Cubs
continue to thrive under Giles is
watchful eye so we try and spend a
little bit of time to them every day
it's really important because ultimately
from day one we've been building our
bond with them so the fact that they
just get used to you know hearing my
voice and the sensation of being touched
and picked up and stuff is really good
his eyes are still completely closed so
they ain't but yeah it's usually between
six and twelve
yeah stay still for just a second Wow
very high grande that's two hundred
grams again in a day it's fantastic so
they're only twelve days old and they
will already double their birth weight
they're stronger and bigger you get the
quicker you get the better your chance
of survival in the one just notice that
one new line is open
she's awesome you can see me now sorta
you can see your shadow anyway for the
first couple of weeks they're not gonna
be able to focus properly it's still
going to take like a human baby like it
takes a few weeks to for the eyes to
adjust two weeks later the Cubs are
growing stronger and it's time for Giles
to give them names so if you look at the
two them together this little chap has
more of a continuous stripe going along
this way whereas this one's a bit more
broken like a spa so this is we're
calling this one spot for the time being
and this one strike and he tends to have
a little bit more of a feisty character
than his brother he's gonna be a change
I can see already see what I mean about
being straw B aren't you yeah that's
good you've got spirit so this is one
we're calling spot this neural chat was
the first one born and he was the one
that for the first couple of areas we
were a little worried about he had a bit
of a tougher time ninya you don't we're
always nearly the same way disease
brother near despite their good health
life for young tigers is precarious
globally over a third of captive born
Sumatran Cubs won't make it to adulthood
so Giles has made a difficult decision
to safeguard the Cubs future
you're gonna pass with flying colors
buddy yeah he's going to hand raise them
himself at home so he can give them
24-hour care and Mel the vet has come to
check if they're healthy enough to leave
really good steady beat no mames they're
not too young so with it they're already
cut so much the Cubs will be vulnerable
to illness until they're around six
weeks old
so Giles has got to keep a close eye on
them round the clock there is an awful
lot of pressure you know this first and
foremost you know there's pressure
because these guys are so important to
not only us here at the zoo but also to
the breeding program potentially a lot
of eyes around the world that are you
know watching what we're doing and
making sure we do a good job don't give
any good guy hey hand raising the Cubs
will also help prepare them for their
future lives at the zoo
[Music]
you